                                    [EDRDG]
      ****** ELECTRONIC DICTIONARY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT GROUP ******
              ****** GENERAL DICTIONARY LICENCE STATEMENT ******

1. Introduction

In March 2000, James William Breen assigned ownership of the copyright of the
dictionary files assembled, coordinated and edited by him to the The Electronic
Dictionary Research and Development Group, then at at Monash University
(hereafter "the Group"), on the understanding that the Group will foster the
development of the dictionary files, and will utilize all monies received for
use of the files for the further development of the files, and for research
into computer lexicography and electronic dictionaries.

This document outlines the licence arrangement put in place by The Group for
usage of the files. It replaces all previous copyright and licence statements
applying to the files.


2. Application

This licence statement and copyright notice applies to the following dictionary
files, the associated documentation files, and any data files which are derived
from them.

    * JMDICT - Japanese-Multilingual Dictionary File - the Japanese and English
      components (the German, French and Russian translational equivalents are
      covered by separate copyright held by the compilers of that material.)
    * EDICT - Japanese-English Electronic DICTionary File
    * ENAMDICT - Japanese Names File
    * COMPDIC - Japanese-English Computing and Telecommunications Terminology
      File
    * KANJIDIC2 - File of Information about the Kanji in JIS X 0208, JIS X 0212
      and JIS X 0213 in XML format.
    * KANJIDIC - File of Information about the 6,355 Kanji in the JIS X 0208
      Standard (special conditions apply)
    * KANJD212 - File of Information about the 5,801 Supplementary Kanji in the
      JIS X 0212 Standard
    * EDICT-R - romanized version of the EDICT file. (NB: this file has been
      withdrawn from circulation, and all sites carrying it are requested to
      remove their copies.)
    * RADKFILE/KRADFILE - files relating to the decomposition of the 6,355
      kanji in JIS X 0208 into their visible components.

Copyright over the documents covered by this statement is held by James William
BREEN and The Electronic Dictionary Research and Development Group.


3. Licence Conditions

[http://creativecommons.org/images/public/somerights20.gif]
The dictionary files are made available under a Creative Commons Attribution-
ShareAlike Licence (V3.0). The Licence Deed can be viewed here, and the full
Licence Code is here.

In summary (extract from the Licence Deed):
 _____________________________________________________________________________
|You are free:                                                                |
|    * to Share - to copy, distribute and transmit the work                   |
|    * to Remix - to adapt the work                                           |
|Under the following conditions:                                              |
|    * Attribution. You must attribute the work in the manner specified by the|
|      author or licensor (but not in any way that suggests that they endorse |
|      you or your use of the work).                                          |
|    * Share Alike. If you alter, transform, or build upon this work, you may |
|      distribute the resulting work only under the same, similar or a        |
|      compatible licence.                                                    |
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------

For attribution of these files, you must:
   a. in the case of publishing significant extracts of the files, or material
      based on significant extracts of the files, e.g. in a published
      dictionary or in vocabulary lists, clearly acknowledge that you used the
      files for this purpose;
   b. in the case of a software package or WWW server, etc. which uses the
      files or incorporates data from the files, you must:
         i. acknowledge the usage and source of the files in the documentation,
            publicity material, WWW site of the package/server, etc.;
        ii. provide copies of the documentation and licence files (in the case
            of software packages). Where the application packaging does not
            provide for the inclusion of such files (e.g. with iPhone
            applications), it is sufficient to provide links, as per the next
            point;
       iii. provide links to either local copies of the documentation and
            licence files or to the locations of the files at Monash University
            or at the EDRDG site.
            If a WWW server is providing a dictionary function or an on-screen
            display of words from the files, the acknowledgement must be made
            on each screen display, e.g. in the form of a message at the foot
            of the screen or page. If, however, material from the files is
            mixed with information from other sources, it is sufficient to
            provide a general acknowledgement of the sources as described
            above.
            For the EDICT, JMdict and KANJIDIC files, the following URLs may be
            used or quoted:
                # http://www.csse.monash.edu.au/~jwb/edict.html
                # http://www.csse.monash.edu.au/~jwb/jmdict.html
                # http://www.csse.monash.edu.au/~jwb/kanjidic.html

See this_page for samples of possible acknowledgement text.
Note that in all cases, the addition of material to the files or to extracts
from the files does not remove or in any way diminish the Group's copyright
over the files.

Note also that provided the conditions above are met, there is NO restriction
placed on commercial use of the files. The files can be bundled with software
and sold for whatever the developer wants to charge. Software using these files
does not have to be under any form of open-source licence.

Where use of the files results in a financial return to the user, it is
suggested that the user make a donation to the Group to assist with the
continued development of the files. There are several ways of donating:

    * send a cheque (check) in any currency made out to "Monash University".
      The address to use is:
            Jim Breen
            Electronic Dictionary Research Group
            Clayton School of Information Technology
            Monash University
            Clayton, Vic, 3800
            Australia
    * make a donation via PayPal using a credit or debit card. Simply click on
      the following button and follow the instructions.
      [Submit https://www.paypal.com/en_US/i/btn/x-click-but21.gif]
    * make a funds transfer from your bank using a mechanism such as SWIFT.
      Email Jim for the University's banking details.

NB: No contract or agreement needs to be signed in order to use the files. By
using the files, the user implicitly undertakes to abide by the conditions of
this licence.


4. Warranty and Liability

While every effort has been made to ensure the accuracy of the information in
the files, it is possible that errors may still be included. The files are made
available without any warranty whatsoever as to their accuracy or suitability
for a particular application.

Any individual or organization making use of the files must agree:

   a. to assume all liability for the use or misuse of the files, and must
      agree not to hold the Group liable for any actions or events resulting
      from use of the files.
   b. to refrain from bringing action or suit or claim against the Group or any
      of the Group's members on the basis of the use of the files, or any
      information included in the files.
   c. to indemnify the Group or its members in the case of action by a third
      party on the basis of the use of the files, or any information included
      in the files.


5. Copyright

Every effort has been made in the compilation of these files to ensure that the
copyright of other compilers of dictionaries and lexicographic material has not
been infringed. The Group asserts its intention to rectify immediately any
breach of copyright brought to its attention.

Any individual or organization in possession of copies of the files, upon
becoming aware that a possible copyright infringement may be present in the
files, must undertake to contact the Group immediately with details of the
possible infringement.


6. Prior Permission

All permissions for use of the files granted by James William Breen prior to
March 2000 will be honoured and maintained, however the placing of the KANJD212
and EDICTH files under the GNU GPL has been withdrawn as of 25 March 2000.


7. Special Conditions for the KANJIDIC, KANJD212 and KANJIDIC2 Files

In addition to licensing arrangements described above, the following additional
conditions apply to the KANJIDIC, KANJD212 and KANJIDIC2 files.

The following people have granted permission for material for which they hold
copyright to be included in the files, and distributed under the above
conditions, while retaining their copyright over that material:

Jack HALPERN: The SKIP codes.

Note that the SKIP codes are under their own similar Creative Common licence.
See Jack Halpern's conditions_of_use page. Note that commercial applications
using the SKIP codes must have prior permission from Jack Halpern.

Christian WITTERN and Koichi YASUOKA: The Pinyin information.

Urs APP: the Four Corner codes and the Morohashi information.

Mark SPAHN and Wolfgang HADAMITZKY: the kanji descriptors from their dictionary.

Charles MULLER: the Korean readings.

Joseph DE ROO: the De Roo codes.


8. Enquiries

All enquiries to:
The Electronic Dictionary Research and Development Group
(Attn: Assoc. Prof. Jim Breen)
Clayton School of Information Technology
Monash University
CLAYTON VIC 3168
AUSTRALIA
(jimbreen@gmail.com)
