<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.1.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kiten;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdeedu">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &kiten; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Jason</firstname>
<othername></othername>
<surname>Katz-Brown</surname>
<affiliation>
<address><email>jason@katzbrown.com</email></address>
</affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<!-- Date and version information of the documentation
Don't forget to include this last date and this last revision number, we
need them for translation coordination !
Please respect the format of the date (DD/MM/YYYY) and of the version
(Major.minor.lesser), it could be used by automation scripts -->

<date>2002-07-20</date>
<releaseinfo>1.00.00</releaseinfo>

<!-- Abstract about this handbook -->

<abstract>
<para>
&kiten; is a Japanese reference/study tool for &kde;.
</para>
</abstract>


<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>Golf</keyword>
<keyword>Kolf</keyword>
<keyword>Miniature</keyword>
<keyword>Arcade</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction"> <title>Introduction</title>

<para>&kiten; is an application with multiple functions - firstly, it is a convenient English->Japanese and Japanese->English dictionary; secondly, it is a Kanji dictionary, with multiple ways to look up specific characters; thirdly, it is a tool to help you learn Kanji.</para>
<para>Each of these modes is discussed in it's own chapter.</para>

&underFDL;

</chapter>

<chapter id="dictionary"> <title>Using the Dictionary</title>

<para>&kiten;'s most basic mode is as a dictionary for looking up both English and Japanese words. You can also add other dictionaries to &kiten;'s list.</para>

<sect1 id="looking-up-words"> <title>Looking Up Words</title>

<para>To look up words in either language, type them in to the text-edit (much like &konqueror;'s location bar) and press either <keycap>Enter</keycap> or the <guilabel>Search</guilabel> button on the toolbar (again, much like &konqueror;). &kiten; will then look up the word.</para> 
<para>You can enter Kanji, Kana and English and get back results from &kiten;.  These results of your search will appear in the large results view which takes up the majority of the &kiten; window.</para> 
<sect2> <title>Filtering</title>
<para>Often times you will want to filter rare words from your search. &kiten; will do this for you if toggle <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Filter Rare</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para> <note><para>Not all dictionary files support filtering rare entries - most dictionaries, excluding the two provided by default in &kiten; do not.</para></note>

<para>If you have not enabled filtering rare entries, common entries will be labeled <guilabel>Common</guilabel> in the result view.</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="advanced-searches"> <title>Advanced Searches</title>
<para>&kiten; supports more advanced searches than plain normal word
searches.</para>

<sect2> <title>Options for Matching English</title>
<para>Case sensitivity and whole-word matching can be enabled or disabled by choosing <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure Kiten...</guimenuitem></menuchoice>, and then choosing the <guilabel>Searching</guilabel> item on the list on the left. The options can be enabled by checking the checkboxes and disabled by un-checking the checkboxes on this page. These options are global and affect all searches.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2> <title>Beginning/Anywhere Searches</title>
<para>To search for the beginning of a word, instead of pressing the <guilabel>Search</guilabel> button on the toolbar or pressing <keycap>Return</keycap> on the text-entry in the toolbar, choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Search</guimenu><guimenuitem>Search with Beginning of Word</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. Similiarly, choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Search</guimenu><guimenuitem>Search Anywhere</guimenuitem></menuchoice> to search for your text anywhere in a word. These search modes work for searches of both languages.</para>
</sect2>

<sect2> <title>Searching in Results</title>
<para>&kiten; can also help you refine your searches by allowing you to search for new text in the results generated by a previous search. To do this, just choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Search</guimenu><guimenuitem>Search in Results</guimenuitem></menuchoice> to perform your search.</para>
</sect2>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="deinf"> <title>Verb Deinflection</title>
<para>&kiten; can deinflect verbs you search for. To enable this, make sure <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Deinflect Verbs in Regular Search</guimenuitem></menuchoice> is checked. &kiten; will then deinflect Japanese you search for that starts with a Kanji and ends with a Kana.</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="looking-up-kanji"> <title>Looking Up Kanji</title>
<para>&kiten; has features that makes finding the one kanji you want easy from over 14,000 in the default dictionary.</para>

<note><para>Clicking on any Kanji in the main result view will show details on that particular Kanji. This can sometimes be the fastest way to look up a kanji.</para></note>

<tip><para>Kanji searches are also filtered according to whether <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Filter Rare</guimenuitem></menuchoice> is checked.</para></tip>

<sect1 id="regular-kanji-search"> <title>Regular Searching</title>
<para>To enable regular searching on the Kanji dictionary, check <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Kanjidic</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>
<para>You can search with English and Japanese search strings the exact same way you can with the normal dictionary.</para>

<caution><para>When searching for Kana readings in the Kanji dictionary, you will have to put a period before the okurigana (the kana that are not part of the Kanji).</para></caution>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="radical-search"> <title>Radical Searching</title>
<para>You can use &kiten;'s radical search dialog to search for Kanji with a combination of radicals and a certain stroke count. Choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Search</guimenu><guimenuitem>Radical Search...</guimenuitem></menuchoice> to open the radical search dialog.</para>

<para>To choose the radicals you want to be in your Kanji, select them from the middle listbox. To display possible radicals to select from this listbox with a certain number of strokes, choose this number of strokes from the spinbox just above the listbox. The radicals you choose will appear in the listbox to the right.</para>

<para>To choose how many strokes your Kanji should have, first check the <guilabel>Search by total strokes</guilabel> checkbox. (If you do not want to search by total strokes, uncheck this checkbox.) Then select the number of strokes from the spinbox on the left, under the checkbox. If you want the stroke count to be fuzzy by a certain number of strokes, select the margin of error from the spinbox to the right of the <guilabel>+/-</guilabel> label.</para>

<para>To perform the lookup, press the <guibutton>Look Up</guibutton> button.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1> <title>Grade Search</title>
<para>To get a list of all Kanji in a certain grade, enter that grade in the main text-entry in the toolbar. Then choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Search</guimenu><guimenuitem>Grade</guimenuitem></menuchoice> to perform your search.</para>

<tip><para>You can enter <userinput>Jouyou</userinput> and <userinput>Jinmeiyou</userinput> to get Kanji not in a regular grade but in those groups.</para></tip>
</sect1>

<sect1> <title>Stroke Search</title>
<para>To get a list of all Kanji with a certain number of strokes, enter that number in the text-entry in the toolbar. Then choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Search</guimenu><guimenuitem>Strokes</guimenuitem></menuchoice> to perform your search.</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="misc"> <title>Miscallaneous</title>
<para>This chapter describes miscallaneous features that can be used in both modes in &kiten;'s main window.</para>

<sect1 id="history"> <title>The History</title>
<para>&kiten; keeps track of all of your queries in a list. You can see your last 20 results by looking under <menuchoice><guimenu>Go</guimenu><guimenuitem>History</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. To go forward one in the history, choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Go</guimenu><guimenuitem>Forward</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. To go forward one in the history, choose <menuchoice><guimenu>Go</guimenu><guimenuitem>Back</guimenuitem></menuchoice>.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="input"> <title>Inputting Japanese</title>
<para>If you are unable to input Japanese normally into &kde; applications, you can use &kiten;'s Kana input system that is built in to the text-entry.</para>
<para>To start Kana input, press <keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>Space</keycap></keycombo>. Now inputted syllables will be transformed into Hiragana. If you type a syllable in capital letters, it will be transformed into Katakana instead. Press <keycombo action="simul">&Shift;<keycap>Space</keycap></keycombo> again to go back to regular input.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="printing"> <title>Printing</title>
<para>You can print the result view by choosing <menuchoice><guimenu>Go</guimenu><guimenuitem>History</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. &kiten; will add an informative header to the printout.</para>
</sect1>

</chapter>

&documentation.index; 
</book>
